.TH DISK-JANITOR 1 "2026-06-25" "disk-janitor 0.1.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
disk-janitor \- stop git worktrees from duplicating build artifacts and sweep regenerable junk on a schedule
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B disk-janitor
.I command
.RI [ flags ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
AI coding agents (Claude Code, Codex, \[char46]\[char46]\[char46]) isolate work in git worktrees.
Worktrees share git history but not build outputs, so each one gets its own multi-gigabyte
.B target/
and
.BR node_modules .
.B disk-janitor
prevents the duplication at the source and sweeps the regenerable remainder on a weekly schedule.
.PP
It configures a shared Cargo target directory, enables pnpm store linking
.RB ( clone
on APFS,
.B hardlink
on Linux), and schedules a job that runs
.BR cargo-sweep ,
prunes stale
.BR node_modules ,
prunes dangling git worktree metadata, and removes idle
.B **/.claude/worktrees/agent-*
checkouts.
.PP
Source code and AI-agent chat history are never touched.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B install \fR[\fB--with-agent-guidance\fR] [\fB--dry-run\fR]
Configure the shared Cargo target dir and pnpm linking, install
.B cargo-sweep
if needed, place the CLI on
.BR PATH ,
and schedule the weekly cleanup.
.TP
.B uninstall \fR[\fB--purge\fR]
Reverse everything cleanly, restoring any pre-existing config files from backups.
.B --purge
also removes
.B cargo-sweep
and the application state directory.
.TP
.B run \fR[\fB--dry-run\fR|\fB-n\fR]
Run the cleanup now.
.B --dry-run
reports what would be removed and deletes nothing.
.TP
.B status
Show what is configured and the current free space.
.TP
.B logs \fR[\fB-f\fR]
Show (or with
.BR -f ,
follow) the run log.
.TP
.B config
Print the configuration file path and its contents.
.TP
.B version
Print the version.
.TP
.B help
Show usage.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --with-agent-guidance
On
.BR install ,
manage a short worktree-guidance block in agent config files
.RB ( ~/.codex/AGENTS.md ,
.BR ~/.claude/CLAUDE.md )
when they exist. Off by default.
.TP
.B --dry-run \fR(\fB-n\fR)
Preview destructive actions without performing them.
.TP
.B --purge
On
.BR uninstall ,
also remove
.B cargo-sweep
and
.BR ~/.disk-janitor .
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B install
writes
.BR ~/.disk-janitor/config.env .
Edit it and re-run
.B install
to apply. Key settings:
.BR TARGET_DIR ,
.BR PROJECT_DIRS ,
.BR NPM_IMPORT_METHOD ,
.BR SWEEP_DAYS ,
.BR NM_DAYS ,
.BR WORKTREE_DAYS ,
.BR RUN_WEEKDAY / RUN_HOUR / RUN_MINUTE ,
and
.BR AGENT_GUIDANCE .
.B disk-janitor
refuses to operate if
.B PROJECT_DIRS
points at
.B $HOME
or
.BR / .
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.disk-janitor/config.env
User configuration.
.TP
.B ~/.disk-janitor/state
Tracked install state (backups and origins for clean uninstall).
.TP
.B ~/Library/LaunchAgents/disk-janitor.plist
Scheduled job on macOS (launchd).
.TP
.B ~/.config/systemd/user/disk-janitor.timer
Scheduled job on Linux (systemd user timer); a crontab entry is used as a fallback.
.SH "WHAT IT NEVER TOUCHES"
Source code, and AI-agent chat history / transcripts:
.BR ~/.claude/projects ,
.BR ~/.codex/sessions ,
and similar. Only regenerable build artifacts and abandoned worktree checkouts are removed.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B 0
on success;
.B 1
on an unknown command or flag;
.B 2
when a configured project directory is unsafe (for example
.BR $HOME ).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cargo-sweep (1),
.BR pnpm (1),
.BR git-worktree (1)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
https://github.com/WillieCubed/disk-janitor/issues
.SH LICENSE
MIT.
